imagine powering a wheelchair with your
mind and with ease the man you see here
moving around a wheelchair made by
toyota with his thoughts the secret
brain movement sensors that learn the
characteristics of what you're thinking
making movement seems so natural and
quickly to physics professor Michio Kaku
author of the physics of the impossible
my guest here in studio how you doing my
friend is good what am I thinking right
now by the way I'm you're a smart guy
gave me five years and we will read your
thoughts i think so that's right here
coming very fast how's it as simple as
saying the computer is literally reading
your mind in some sense yes and you
don't have to be a Las Vegas magician or
a Jedi Knight 204 justify the brain
emits radio waves that emits electric
and magnetic fields which can be easily
picked up by electrodes we've known that
for almost a hundred years the new twist
is we now have computers that can
analyze that recognize patterns sort of
know what you're thinking use that to
energize machines like wheelchairs and
that's just the beginning you know we're
looking at some pictures here might see
video in a moment here this is the
Toyota mechanism and the feedback
happens within 125 milliseconds which is
about tenth of a second to the second
just like that's fast very fast we've
never been there before yeah this is a
breakthrough it's a game changer because
commercialization of this technology is
coming we've had this technology but
it's clunky it takes time it's
frustrating who wants to use it this is
fast convenient and the Machine learns
it learns after every trial so in the
future the elderly will have a
telepathic house a whole house that's
telling awake before before we go there
mark can we get a shot at the top of
this guy's head literally the hat that
he's wearing right there yeah wait for
in a moment here these red rings on top
of his head what is that they're little
electrodes tube8 wires that basically
pick up the electric and magnetic fields
at the brain normally admits the brain
normally has brain waves that we emit
but they're very faint so these
electrons pick up these brainwaves
computers massage the data
nice patterns so when you think left
right forward backward it can translate
these things into mechanical motion so I
said go forward that goes forward and
I'm thinking when I go over here it goes
over there and somehow when they come
back over here it goes i think it's
phenomenal that's right you have to be
trained to do this but there's going to
be a huge market think of all the
elderly who want to live in a telepathic
out two things I want to put on the
screen the ass emo this was developed in
Japan to this is from Honda and did it
work that way or this way the honda
machine allows you to think moving your
hands and alarms and then as a mobile
also move its arms in this way you could
control a robot nurse for example so the
robot will come and basically do
whatever you want just by drinking
you're transferring your thoughts to
another robot to do something for you
that's right wow that's amazing another
thing called the mindflex we'll put that
on the screen what is that um that I'm
not sure about what company is marketing
this I'm not sure either actually you
stumped me mindflex apparently has
something do with the game where you can
control a ping-pong ball that's right he
could get shift the one side of the
other goes forward about big kids are
the other market video games can be
controlled by the mind and if you think
about how huge the video game market is
it's bigger than Hollywood in fact in
terms of revenue games can be played
just by thinking about it so this is
just the first of many video games which
can then be controlled by kids thinking
about it now can I know you're a big
future guy okay it's by Mattel by the
way thank you jen very circle gets the
square by the way you're thinking about
the future how would we then apply to
say take a stroke victim for example
maybe he or she cannot type on the
computer could i be able to now that's
right we can put an electrode directly
into a stroke victim who is paralyzed
this has been a brown university hook it
up to a laptop a person has to learn how
to move the cursor on the screen these
people can now surf the web they can
answer emails they can write emails do
crossword puzzles and they are paralyzed
okay this is going to change the way we
view
equal care when people who are just
immobilized just by thought can have an
electrode in their brain and they can
surf the web the possibilities are
endless hey think of all the college
kids who want to surf the web on a final
exam with an electrode yeah even the
loan some people think on the frontal
lobe will have google and plan at some
point could you drive a car with your
brain in principle we already have cars
that can drive themselves by GPS system
but they have to know where to go so you
can have a person control the GPS
monitor and of course have a control the
break the left the right the steering
and have cars which drive themselves
assisted with the brain that's
phenomenal how far are we from achieving
this Oh commercialization of this
technology is becoming very soon now
it's a few months you're talking years a
few years but it's not a decades away
we're just talking a few years before
this hits the marketplace kids the
elderly and eventually all of us will
want to be a Jedi Knight then dearie
well Michio thank you great to see in
person miss your to a Michio Monday
on a Wednesday thank you sir